= The process of feeding the course data into the system =

Tomas Cerha, 2004-05-09

This document was created based on the agreements made at the meeting in
Graz (May 7-8, 2004).  It describes the way how course data made by content
creators should be entered into the system, so that it can be used in an
electronic learning environment.


== Introduction ==

The Language Content Generator (LCG) processes the input data and produces a
Content Package (CP) that can be used in an on-line or off-line learning
environment.  The input doesn't define the presentation.  It only defines the
content and it must comply with the agreed course structure.

The LCG allows us to generate the CP using any presentation on the output side
without changing the input data and thus brings the advantage of independent
work within the user-interface and language-module work-groups.

To be able to process the input data with a computer program (the LCG) we must
define the rules how this data are represented.  The computer program must be
able to recognize the logical elements of the content to be able to put them
together on its output, but on the other hand the content creators must not be
forced to deal with the technical aspects more than necessary.


== Solution ==

With all this in mind, the following model has been chosen for the process:

 * the input data will be gradually uploaded to the server in a form defined by
   a [manual.wiki|manual] as it is being developed/improved.
 * this data will be processed by the technicians (using the LCG) and eventual
   problems will be either directly corrected where possible or communicated
   with content creators.
 * the LCG will be gradually modified to produce the best possible presentation
   of the course material.


== Role assignment ==

=== Lawton School, BFI ===

 * uploading the content to the server in the form defined by the [manual.wiki|manual]

=== Media LT ===

 * processing the content uploaded by content creators
 * solving the problems in the input data and providing feedback to content
   creators (to avoid the same problems in future)

=== Brailcom ===

 * create the [manual.wiki|manual] describing the formats of input data
 * support for Media LT in the process of processing the input data
 * development of the LCG
