= Eurochance Course Structure =

Tomas Cerha, 2004-05-19

This document describes the course structure for Eurochance language courses.

*Table of Contents:*

@TOC@

== Overview == *

A course consists of a certain number of units (for instance 15 units for
the Intermediate course).  Each unit is focused on certain topic (e.g. finance,
catering etc.).

Each unit consists of several sections:

* *Introduction* ... outline of the focus of the unit
* *Vocabulary* ... vocabulary listing
* *Key language use* ... key structures
* *Key Grammar* ... a very basic explanation
* *Exercises* ... series of exercises to practise the acquired knowledge
* *Consolidation* ... an overview of competences achieved in the unit

== Types of Content == *

=== Introduction Section === intro

The introduction section consists of a structured text.  This means paragraphs
of text with simple formatting (bold/italic/underlined text), itemized lists,
headings.

This section also provides the hyperlinks to all the other sections within the
unit.

=== Vocabulary === *

Consists of a listing of vocabulary for the unit.  User can read each piece of
vocabulary separately, hear the correct pronounciation (recorded by native
speaker) and read the translation into his mother tongue.

User can browse the vocabulary up and down and search for a concrete word
(by means of the browser).   

=== Key Language Use === use

To contents of this section comprises a Structured text (as described in the
[#intro] above) with the possibility to use sound resordings that can be replayed
on user request.

=== Key Grammar === *

The same as the [#use] section above.

=== Exercises === *

This section consists of a series of exercises.  There is a predefined set of
exercise types that can be used.  The order and number of exercises does not
matter as long as the types are respected, however it is advisable to stick to
cartain convention for beter users orientation.

The detailed description of exercise types and their content can be found at
the [manual.wiki|Language Content Generator manual].

=== Consolidation === *

This is a short section of structured text.  Most often this will be an
itemised list of the competences achieved in the unit.

