== Instructions ==

#if issubclass(cls, SentenceCompletion)

The aim of this exercise is to provide an opportunity for the user to produce a
complete sentence in English and compare pronunciation with an original and is
therefore purely aural-oral, with no written tasks.

If you wish to check your answers against the written text, you can see the
textual transcript of the recording.  Since this is not a written exercise,
there is no way to check your results automatically.

#endif

# **** _ChoiceBasedExercise subclasses ****

#if issubclass(cls, MultipleChoiceQuestions)

Each question in this exercise is followed by a list of possible answers
labaled a, b and c.  Only one answer is correct.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, Selections)

There are several pairs of simmillar sentences, however one sentence in each
pair is always incorrect.  Your goal is to decide which is the correct one.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, TrueFalseStatements)

Each sentence in this exercise is followed by a control with two options --
'TRUE' and 'FALSE'.  Your goal is to decide whether the sentence is true or not
and choose the corresponding option.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, GapFilling)

Your goal is to choose the correct word to fill in a gap in a sentence.  For
each gap you have three choices.  Only one of them is correct.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, _ChoiceBasedExercise)

You will hear a response immediately after choosing the answer.  When you
decide for a wrong answer, you can try again until you find the correct one.
The results below the exercise will show you how many answers you did right on
the first try (see the [#display] section below).

#endif

# **** _FillInExercise subclasses ****

#if issubclass(cls, VocabExercise)

There are two ways how you can do the exercise: The oral form and the written
form.  Do both of them for best results.

The oral version is based on the listening below.  You will hear each item in
your language.  Say the word or expression in English and listen to the model
pronunciation.

The written version lists all the vocabulary items on the page.  For each item,
there is a text box next to it.  Your goal is to type the translation into this
text box.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, Transformation)

Your goal is to transform a structure (pattern or paradigm) into a different
structure.  The recording contains detailed instructions for this
transformation.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, Substitution)

Your goal is to substitute a structure (pattern or paradigm) with a different
structure.  Each sentence is followed by text in brackets.  Replace the
corresponding part of the sentence using this text.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, Cloze)

Your goal in this exercise is to fill in the gaps in the text using exactly the
same words as you have heard in the recording.

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, _FillInExercise) and cls is not Dictation

Use the buttons at the bottom of the exercise to evaluate all the answers.  You
can also check each answer individually using the shortcut keys (see the
section [#keys] for more information).

#endif
#if issubclass(cls, Dictation)

Listen to the recording and type what you hear into the large text box below.
You can replay the recording how many times you need to understand it, however
two attempts should be enough for a well performing student.

Pay special attention to punctuation and case, since they often cause most of
the problems when evaluating dictation.  Write all the sentences as you hear
them, using the appropriate punctuation character and one space after each
sentence.  No space is allowed at after the last sentence.

#endif

#if issubclass(cls, _FillInExercise)

== Shortcut Keys == keys

In all the exercises where you fill in the text into a
text-box you can use the two shortcut keys described
below.


 * *Enter* ... use this key within the text-field to evaluate the current
   answer.  You hear a sound response and in case of an error, the cursor is
   moved to the position of the first incorrect character within the text.

 * *Ctrl-Space* ... if you don't know the answer, you can also use the ``hint''
   feature.  Just press the key combination (holding the Ctrl key, press the
   spacebar) and one letter of the correct answer will be filled in
   automatically.  If you have already entered some text, the cursor will be
   moved behind the last correct character and next one will be inserted.  It
   also means, that if there is some text behind the cursor, there is at least
   one error in it.  Try to locate this error and correct it.  Then you can try
   to evaluate your answer using the 'Enter' key (see above) or use ``hint''
   again, until you find the correct answer.

#endif

#if displays

== Display == display

The display box below the exercise shows the following values:

#if 'answered' in displays

 * *Answered* ... displays the number of the tasks you have already answered.
   For example the value 4/10 means, that you have answered four out of ten
   questions.

#endif

#if 'result' in displays
#if cls is Dictation

 * *Result* ... displays the result of the last evaluation (evaluate your
   answer by pressing the 'Enter' key or by the ``Evaluate'' button below the
   exercise).

#else

 * *Result* ... displays the number and percentage of successful answers.  The
   first pair of numbers shows the results of all current answers.  If you
   didn't answer all of them correctly on first attempt, there is also a second
   pair of numbers showing how many answers you did succesfully on the first
   try.  Use the ``Reset'' button to start again.

#endif
#endif
#endif

#if buttons
== Buttons == buttons

The control panel below the exercise contains the following buttons:

#if 'eval' in buttons

 * *Evaluate* ... evaluate the entire exercise.  If an error is found, the
   cursor is moved to the first incorrect answer (and to the first incorrect
   character within this answer, when some part of the answer is correct).
   #endif

#endif
#if 'fill' in buttons

 * *Fill* ... fill in the whole exercise with correct answers.

#endif
#if 'reset' in buttons

 * *Reset* ... reset all your answers and start again.

#endif
#endif
