# -*- coding: utf-8-dos; mode: wiking -*-

== Instructions ==

#if issubclass(type, SentenceCompletion)

The aim of this exercise is to give you an opportunity to produce a complete
sentence and compare your pronunciation with the original.  Therefore the
exercise is purely aural-oral, with no written tasks.

If you wish to check your answers against the written text, you can use the
transcript of the recording.  Since this is not a written exercise, your
results cannot be checked automatically.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, Reading)

Read the text and try to understand as much as you can.  Use a dictionary if
necessary.  In many cases you will find the information relevant for your own
purposes, but it will also be needed in the exercises which follow.


#endif
#if issubclass(type, Listening)

Listen to the recording to practice understanding native speakers.

# You will hear the complete recording first, and then you will be able to
# practice your own pronunciation by listening to shorter sections and
# repeating them until you are satisfied with your pronunciation.

#endif


########## _ChoiceBasedExercise subclasses ##########

#if issubclass(type, MultipleChoiceQuestions)

Each question in this exercise is followed by two or more possible
answers. Only one answer is correct.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, Selections)

There are several groups of two or three similar sentences or expressions. Only
one option in each group is correct.  Your goal is to decide which one.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, TrueFalseStatements)

Each sentence in this exercise is followed by two controls labeled
'>>${TRUE}<<' and '>>${FALSE}<<'.  Decide whether the sentence is true or not
and press the corresponding button.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, GapFilling)

Choose the correct word to fill in a gap in a sentence.  For each gap you have
several choices.  Only one of them is correct.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, _ChoiceBasedExercise)

You will hear a response immediately after choosing the answer.  When you
choose the wrong answer, you can try again until you find the correct one.  The
results below the exercise will show you how many answers you got right on the
first try (see the [#indicators] section below).

#endif

########## _FillInExercise subclasses ##########

#if issubclass(type, VocabExercise)

There are two ways to do the exercise: orally and written.  Do the exercise
both ways to get the best results.

To do the exercise orally is simple.  Go through the vocabulary list and think
of the correct translation for each word or expression.  There is a >>${Play}<<
button behind the text-box for each item which allows you to hear the correct
answer.  Repeat the answer to practise the correct pronunciation.  Some items
have more than one correct answer, so there may be multiple buttons to play
each of them.  Since there is no way of checking your oral answers, the results
are not available.  If you want to see your score, you must do the written
exercise.

To do the exercise in written form, simply type the translation of each item
into the text-box.  Be careful to use capital letters where this is
appropriate, since an answer without correct capitalization is always
considered incorrect.  When the prompt is a complete sentence, you must also
use correct punctuation.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, Transformation)

Your goal is to transform a structure (pattern or paradigm) into a  different
structure, for example changing an affirmative sentence into a question.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, Substitution)

Use the prompt to produce another sentence with the same structure.  Each
sentence is followed by text in brackets.  Replace the corresponding part of
the sentence using this text.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, _Cloze)

Your goal in this exercise is to fill in the gaps in a longer piece  of text.
There is just one correct answer for each gap.

#endif
#if issubclass(type, Dictation)

First listen to the recording once and then go to the large text entry box
below.  Within the box, you can use shortcut keys to play individual pieces of
the recording.  Typically you play one part using the *>* key (right angle
bracket) and type what you hear. Then you press the *>* key again to play the
next part and type it too, and so on until you reach the end of the recording.
Then you can use the evaluation keys (or the buttons below) to evaluate the
whole text.

Pay special attention to punctuation and case, since these cause most of the
problems when evaluating your answer. Type all the sentences as you hear them,
using the appropriate punctuation character and one space after each sentence.
No space is allowed after the last sentence.

/Note:/ Of course, you can replay the recording as many times as you need in
order to understand it, although two attempts should be enough for a well
performing student.

#else
#if issubclass(type, _FillInExercise)

You can check each answer individually using the shortcut keys (see the section
[#keys] for more information).  When your answer is evaluated as incorrect and
you do not know why, always check whether you have used correct punctuation and
capital letters where appropriate. These two things are the cause of most
confusion.

Use the [#panel] at the bottom of the exercise to evaluate all the answers at
once.

If your browser doesn't support JavaScript, the interactive features and
automatic evaluation do not work.  You can still use this course, but you will
have to check your answers against the [#answer-sheets] manually.

#endif
#endif

#if issubclass(type, _FillInExercise)

== Shortcut Keys == keys

In all the exercises where you fill in the text into a text-box you can use the
two shortcut keys described below.


Enter
   Use this key within the text-field to evaluate the current answer.  You hear
   a sound response and in case of an error, the cursor is moved to the
   position of the first incorrect character within the text.  This way you can
   locate the error, fix it and evaluate again.  When you don't know how to
   fix an error, you can use the ``hint'' key described below.

Ctrl-Space
   This function is called a ``hint''.  It helps you in case you don't know the
   answer or you don't know how to fix an error in your answer.  Just press the
   key combination (holding the Ctrl key, press the spacebar) and one letter of
   the correct answer will be filled in automatically.  If you have already
   entered some text, the cursor will be moved to after the last correct
   character and next one will be inserted.  This also means that if there is
   some text after the cursor, there is at least one error in it.  Try to
   locate this error and correct it.  Then you can evaluate your answer using
   the 'Enter' key (see above) or use ``hint'' again, until you find the
   complete answer.

#if issubclass(type, Dictation)

Also, in the dictation exercise text box, you can use the following keys to
control the playback of the recording:

> /(right angle bracket, greater than sign)/
   Play next piece of the recording.

< /(left angle bracket, less than sign)/
   Play the previous piece of the recording.

Ctrl-Enter
   Replay the current (last played) piece of the recording once again.

#endif
#endif

#if issubclass(type, _InteractiveExercise)

== Indicators == indicators

The indicator panel below the exercise shows the following values:

#if issubclass(type, Dictation)

>>${Result:}<<
   Displays the result of the last evaluation (evaluate your answer by pressing
   the 'Enter' key or by the >>${Evaluate}<< button below the exercise).

#else

>>${Correct:}<<
   Displays the number and percentage of successful answers.  The first pair of
   numbers shows the results of all current answers.  If you didn't answer all
   of them correctly on first attempt, there is also a second pair of numbers
   showing how many answers you did succesfuly on the first try.  Use the
   >>${Reset}<< button to start again.

>>${Answered:}<<
   Displays the number of the tasks you have already answered.  For example
   4/10 means, that you have answered four out of ten questions so you should
   finish the remaining six.

#endif

== Control Panel == panel

The control panel below the exercise contains the following buttons:

>>${Evaluate}<<
   Evaluate the entire exercise.  If an error is found, the cursor is moved to
   the first incorrect answer.  Within a text-box, the cursor is also moved to
   the first incorrect character of your answer.

>>${Fill}<<
   Fill in the whole exercise with the correct answers.

>>${Reset}<<
   Reset all your answers and start again.

== Answer Sheets == answer-sheets

The Answer Sheets contain all the correct answers for all the exercises.  You
can access >>${Answer Sheets}<< from the Course Index, or more conveniently,
you can use the '?'  (question mark) link after each task.  This link takes you
directly to the corresponding answer in the Answer Sheet.

