# -*- coding: utf-8; mode: structured-text -*-
# Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Brailcom, o.p.s.
# This is part of the LCG Documentation.
# See the file index.en.txt for copying conditions.

== Course Structure Specification ==

=== The Intermediate Course Structure ===

The Intermediate Course consists of 15 units.  Each unit is focused on a
certain topic (e.g. finance, catering etc.).  The structure of each unit is
described below in the section [#unit].

The course starts at a Course Index page.  This page contains a short
introduction text and a table of contents.  The first document in the table of
contents is [#instructions].  The 15 units follow.  Then there is a
[#grammar-bank], [#vocabulary-index] and [#help-index].


==== General Course Instructions ==== instructions

The first document linked form the table of contents id called General Course
Instructions and contains basic information about the course, its usage,
navigation etc.


==== Unit Structure ==== unit

The structure of each unit is uniform.  The first section is "Aims and
Objectives".  It informs you briefly about the focus of the unit and lists the
grammar points which will be practised, with links to the [#grammar-bank].

The next section contains a listing of vocabulary for the unit.  You can browse
through the vocabulary, see the translations and play native speaker recordings
to hear the correct pronunciation.

Five sections of exercises follow:
  * Section 1: Vocabulary Practice
  * Section 2: Listening Comprehension
  * Section 3: General Comprehension
  * Section 4: Grammar Practice
  * Section 5: Consolidation

There is a predefined set of exercise types that can be used.  The type, order
and number of exercises in each section is not strictly fixed, however it is as
consistent as possible for easier orientation of the user.

The detailed description of exercise types can be found in the section
[exercises#exercise-types].

The final section, "Checklist", lists the skills that the user has practised
and should have acquired.

==== Grammar Bank ==== grammar-bank

Apart from the 15 units there is also a Grammar Bank that the learners can use
for study or reference.

The grammar bank consists of a number of sections focused on different topics.
These sections can be linked directly from any unit.  A hierarchical table of
contents is generated automatically at the beginning of the page to allow
direct access to any topic.


==== Vocabulary Index ==== vocabulary-index

This is simply a collection of all the vocabulary from all units sorted
albhabetically by the original term and also by the translation.  Phrases are
listed separately.

The vocabulary index is generated automatically by the LCG, so no source data
are needed.


==== Answer Sheets ==== answer-sheets

Answer Sheets contain all the correct answers for all exercises.  You can
access Answer Sheets from the Course Index, or more conveniently, you can use
the '?'  (question mark) link behind every task within the exercises.  This
link leads you directly to the corresponding answer in the Answer Sheet.

The answer sheets are generated automatically by the LCG and no source data are
needed.


==== Help Index ==== help-index

The Help Index simply lists all the exercise types used within the course and
provides links to their help pages.  Every exercise within the course has its
own link to the respective help page, but it may be practical to have a
collection somewhere...

The help texts are part of the LCG, so no source data are needed.


=== The Advanced Course Structure ===

The Advanced course consists of 10 units.  Their structure is more flexible.
The First and last section is the same (the "Aims & Objectives" and the
"Checklist") as in the Intermediate course.  All the other sections contain
exercises, however their titles and focus is not fixed as in the Intermediate
Course.

There is no separate "Vocabulary" section.  The learners are supposed to use a
dictionary when they discover a new word or expression.

Also the Grammar Bank is omitted for the advanced level.  There are short
explanations before many exercises as the grammar points are being practised.

The top level structure is very similar to the Intermediate Course.  The Course
Index contains a short introduction text and a table of contants.  The table of
contents starts with General Course Instructions, the 10 units, Answer Sheets
and Help Index.

