
== Organization of the Input Data ==

The basic LCG concept is based on files arranged into directories (folders)
according to the logical structure of the course.

There is one /base directory/ for the whole course.  This directory contains
one /subdirectory/ for each unit of the course.  Each of these subdirectories
contains files and subdirectories defining the content of the sections within
the unit.

The subdirectories can be named arbitrarily.  The only important thing is that
the units are ordered according to the alphabetical order of the names of their
directories.  Thus it is advisable to prefix the names by a number of the unit
and then any name describing the focus of the unit for better orientation.  The
diretory names never appear in the output.  They are only used for organization
of the input files.

*An example of the recommended naming scheme for the subdirectories:*

  * 01-telephoning
  * 02-office-admin
  * 03-financial
  * 04-hotels
  * 05-tourism
  * ...


Let's take a look into the course /base directory/ first and then we will
describe the contents of a unit directory.

=== Course-Wide data ===

The data format of each input file depends on the type of the content it is
used for.

Here is an overview of files needed for the whole course:

intro.txt
  A brief course introductory text for the base course page (the index page).
  The file format is the [structured-text]

grammar.txt
  The data for the Grammar Bank as the [structured-text].
  Obviously, this file is only needed for the Intermediate Course, since the
  Advanced Course has no Grammar Bank.  See the following section for more
  details about writing the Grammar Bank.

==== Notes for Writing the Grammar Bank ====

Within the contents of the Grammar Bank, there are often words or structures,
which can be considered citations.  They can be recognised easily: Even after
translating the grammar explanations into another language, these words or
structures will still remain in English (or German for the German course).

Example (with the citations in italics): 

The modal auxiliary verbs (>>can, could, must, may, might, shall, should, will,
would<<) have only one form.  There are also short affirmative forms for
>>shall<< (>>'ll<<) >>will<< (>>'ll<<) and >>would<< (>>'d<<)

The citations must be marked by surrounding them into double angle brackets
like this: =\>>word\<<=.  The paragraph above would be written like this:

-----
The modal auxiliary verbs (>>can, could, must, may, might, shall, should, will,
would<<) have only one form.  There are also short affirmative forms for
>>shall<< (>>'ll<<) >>will<< (>>'ll<<) and >>would<< (>>'d<<)
-----


=== Inside the Unit Directory ===


Here is an overview of files needed for each unit:

title.txt
  The content of this file determines the title of the unit.  This
  should be just one line of [plain-text].

aims.txt
  Source for the "Aims and Objectives" section as
  [structured-text].

vocabulary.txt
  The Vocabulary lists are only present in the Intermediate
  Course, so this file is not needed for the Advanced Course.  The file
  'vocabulary.txt' is the primary source of the vocabulary.  The creator of the
  course defines the terms here with empty translations first.  Then the
  translators make different translations of this file.  Each translation is
  stored in a different file as described in [eurochance-translations#vocab].

exercises.txt
  In the Intermediate Course, the file has five sections (corresponding to the
  five exericise sections defined above) separated by a line of four equation
  signs.  In the advanced course, the file uses section headers as described in
  the [exercises].

checklist.txt
  Source for the "Checklist" section as [structured-text].


See the description of each LCG data format for more datails about the contents
of the files.

